# How to Convert HTML generated by Microsoft Word

Unfortunately MS Word creates very awkward HTML versions of its Word documents.

To change these into useful HTML (using Mac OSX TextEdit and Safari):

1. Open the MS Word generated HTML in the Safari browser
2. Select and Copy all the displayed text
3. Open TextEdit and Paste the copied text
4. Save text from TextEdit (this creates an RTF file).
5. Follow the instructions below to set up TextEdit to save HTML in a reasonable form.
* at http://hints.macworld.com/article.php?story=20060828093624972
6. Follow the instructions below
* at http://osxdaily.com/2012/08/27/enable-save-as-os-x-mountain-lion/



## Appendix

### From http://hints.macworld.com/article.php?story=20060828093624972
1. Copy and paste your Cocoa-formatted text into a new TextEdit document. (Hint: TextEdit provides an Application Service (New Window Containing Selection) in the Services menu for this once you select the text in the originating app.)
2. Open TextEdit's Preferences and select the Open and Save tab.
3. Change Document Type to either HTML 4.01 Strict or XHTML 1.0 Strict, depending on whether you want your code to be XHTML compliant or not.
4. Change Styling to No CSS. Note that this will strip all font and style information from the file, except for the basics like bold and italics.
5. From the TextEdit menubar, select File/Save As.
6. In the Save As dialog box, give your file a name and hard disk location. Then, change the File Format selection to HTML, and click Save.


### From http://osxdaily.com/2012/08/27/enable-save-as-os-x-mountain-lion/
In TextEdit:
Pull down the “File” menu and hold down the “Option” key to turn Duplicate into ‘Save As…’
